# Windows Services
When you need to run code in the background on a server and it does not make sense to force it in IIS you write a Windows Service.  I have written many of these services from security providers to network monitors.  If you can dream it up I probably wrote a Windows Service for it.

Below are a few of the more notable services I wrote but by no means do they represent my full portfolio of work in this area.

#### Projects
* `Remote Printing` - An employer of mine in the warehousing and logistics space needed users in London, UK to be able to submit print jobs to various locations based on some routing rules.  These offices were not connected to each other so we needed to print over the internet.  There were minimal services that supported this and none of them were industrial.  I wrote a Windows service that could be installed at any of our locations that would locate peers and printers and make them available in a pool for routing.  Based on some simple routing metadata that was provided at each site I could autoroute print jobs to correct location based on the print job's details.

* `Security Identity Service` - Before OAuth or ILM was a thing I had a client that needed to do Single Sign On between Web and Desktop applications.  The user's used RSA tokens and this was also before RSA had a SSO product (or much of an API for that matter).  I built out a SSO infrastructure.  Eventually, many years later OAuth 2.0 was born which does ticketing almost identically to my service.

* `Enterprise Software Distribution & Licensing` - WorldCom had a problem: 28,000 laptop users and a team of 5 people managing the software and updates for these machines.  Today you would throw a modern SDS system like System Center at the problem and make your life easier.  System Center did not exist in 1998 and so I built it myself.  But not only did I build a software distribution system, I built a license library checkout system as well.  Instead of WorldCom having to buy 28,000 licenses of Visio for it's users they could buy only 500 copies and save about $11.5M in licensing costs alone (for Visio alone).  My system would allow users to check out a license that would go through an approval process and eventually install the licensed software on their machine.  When they were done or the license was not used for a week the software would remove and the license was returned to the pool.  I single handedly put a major dent into Mr. Gates' bank account (sorry Bill).